thoff: Transport Header Offset (thoff) is the offset to the transport layer header of a packet, for example the tcp header of a packet. The offset points to the header relevant to the protocol that the table does matches on. For etables, this is gonna be the offset to the layer 2 header, for layer 3 tables like ip6 and ip will look at their respective layer 3 headers, and the list goes on for all the others.

hotdrop: hotdrop exists so one can ask the kernel to immediately drop the packet by setting it. netfilter modules can make use of it to filter out packets, this is how obsolete iptables or the (newer) netifrc drops matches or how those that arent allowed by default are dropped by some other default settings in a build in module of netfilter. This in most cases not for security purposes, but rather for a mix of performance(cutting out unnecessary traffic), reducing power consumption, etc.

netfilter tables:netfilter tables dictate the priority(if there are two rules, both using the "raw hook" for interception then you will look at the table to see which one runs first), help the respective netfilter module get the packet(so a ipv4 only module dosent get a ipv6 packet), and also convey intent to the reader of the module. No two tables will usually have the same priority naturally speaking(like all things in life), and sometimes it dosent matter anyway. For example Etable modules will get to see the packets before  ip6, ip and arptables, but between  ip6, ip and arptables, the order really dosent matter since an ipv4 is useless for an ipv6 match module. *ALL THIS IS DONE by:* the .family member of the  struct xt_match that defines the respective table, and only that table will see that packet. In the case of Etables, its gonna be NFPROTO_UNSPEC, where as for others, its gonna be something else, which means that while etables can see the packets of the others, the others cant see the packets. This is ofcourse, just an example, there are more tables, and some sophisticated work arounds, but this is the default way of how netfilter tables work along with some tables as examples.

sk_buff: sk_buff is a handle to the data buffer of the packet.

netfilter tablename: unlike netfilter table, which is defined by .family member of the struct xt_match, the member .name of the struct xt_mtchk_param is there as a userspace tablename, and its use is completely up to the module.

